---
layout: home
title: What is a Smart Contract
parent: 1. Introduction
nav_order: 1
---

# What is a smart contract
{: .no_toc }

## Table of contents
{: .no_toc .text-delta }

1. TOC
{:toc}

# Smart Contracts from a Devs Perspective
A smart contract ain't nothing more that a program stored on a blockchain.

As any piece of modern software it is composed by public and private functions
that interact with eachother in order to accomplish a task. They are written in
human readable languages, and then compiled and deployed (stored) to a blockchain.

Living in a blockchain has its perks (insert goodness of blockchain here).

While knowing how a blockchain works can be useful, it is not actually
necesary that you know every detail. As programers, we can simply abstract
away the underlying complexity. For us it is sufficient to understand that we
will be writting apps that execute in an environment with nice advantages but
important contraints:

1. Computational resources are **much more limited** than on a consumers PC.
Forget about iterating an array of thousands of entries. Data structures are
your friends.

2. Interactions with other apps (other smartcontracts) are **asynchronous**
and **independent**. This means that once your contract called another one,
its execution finished. If there is a return, you will have to handle it as
a new call to your smart contract.

3. We will be dealing with **real money**, so security must be our top concern.
You don't want the user's money to get lost or locked. At the same time, you
want to avoid losing all your money in storage. Don't worry, we have a whole
section about this.

# Writting a Smartcontract in NEAR

The NEAR ecosystem uses two languages: Rust and Assemblyscript.

## Rust
Brief description. Pros and Cons. Contracts that use rust. 

## Assemblyscript
Brief description. Pros and Cons. Contracts that use AS. 


# Interacting with Smart Contracts

Each smart contract is assinged an address in the blockchain and exposes a set
of public methods. Therefore, when interacting with a smart contract, you can
think of it as a service that exposes an API. By calling their methods with
arguments, the smart contract will execute its code and return a result
(which could be null) or fail.

In the near platform you can do this through the [near CLI](citation), by the
near-sdk in Rust or Assemblyscript, or by the near-api in javascript. The near
CLI allows you to... and it is aimed to this kind of users. The near-sdk is
for developers of smart-contracts. The near-api in javascript allows you to 
treat the smart-contract as a (limited) backend for a js app.
